Guru Sādhana of Glorious Dharmakīrti
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Having taken refuge, generated bodhicitta and meditated on the immeasurables as a preliminary,
continue with:
ah, chö kün tongpé ngang nyi lé
Ah. Out of the state of the emptiness of all phenomena,
rinchen trikang pé dé teng
Upon a jewelled throne and seats of lotus and moon
mawé wangchuk chö kyi drak
Is the master of discourse Dharmakīrti.
kar mar dzum trö nyam denpa
He is white with a tinge of red and has a wrathful smile.
rabjung chaluk chak yepa
He wears monastic robes, and with his right hand
chok lé namgyal chakgya chen
Makes the mudrā of universal victory,
yönpa pü teng kyab jin dzé
While his left, upon his knee, adopts the gesture of granting refuge.
u la pen shya lebmor sol
On his head he wears the flattened hat of a paṇḍita.
shyab nyi rol tab ku gying nyam
His two feet are in the posture of ease, and he is dignified in his bearing.
né sum yigé dru sum dang
His three centres are marked by the three seed syllables,
tuk ü da teng raldri ngo
And in his heart centre, upon a moon is a pale blue sword
chang zung tewar dhih dang ni
With a syllable dhīḥ inside the handle
ngö la yangsal trengwa bar
And a blazing garland of vowels and consonants around its surface.
tuk né ö trö yeshepa
Light emanates from the master’s heart centre to invite the wisdom being,
chendrang damyé yermé tim
Who merges inseparably with the samayasattva.
Make offerings with the seven branches.
When practising elaborately, you could offer a maṇḍala.

emaho
Emaho.
kuntuzangpö mönlam trul
Emanated through the aspirations of Samantabhadra,1
küntok drawa chö dzepa
You cut through the web of conceptual thought.
chok lé namgyal chö kyi drak
Dharmakīrti, victorious over all,
solwa deb so jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings.
And:
om ah guru dharmakirti sarwa siddhi pala hung
oṃ āḥ guru dharmakīrti sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Recite the mantra.
lamé ku dang tuk chaktsen
A nectar flow of guru-forms and the insignia of enlightened mind,
ngak dang özer dütsi gyün
Together with mantras and rays of light,
char tar bab né rang tim sam
All descend like rain and dissolve into me.

Further Supplication
khyen rab yeshe ö kyi zer tong gi
With myriad rays of the light of knowledge and insight
dak lö münpa ring du sal dzepa
You banish the darkness of my mind.
palden kuntuzangpo chö kyi drak
Glorious and wholly excellent Dharmakīrti,
dzamling shingta chenpor solwa deb
Great chariot of this world, to you I pray.
lok ma mutek langpö chiwo gem
You crush the heads of elephant-like heretics and false dialecticians,
tsöpé tubpé tenpa saljé pa
And through debate you clarify the teachings of the Sage.
mawé sengé ziji tsungpamé
Lion of Speech, unparalleled in majesty and brilliance,
heruka pal drubpé wangchuk ché
Great heruka, mighty lord of siddhas,
taktu dak la gongpar dzé né kyang
Turn your attention toward me forevermore,
yangdak rigpé lam né gyal sung kün
So that I may apply the path of genuine reasoning to all the Buddha’s words,
tsemé lam né drangpé ngeshé kyi
And through the confidence that derives from valid cognition,
tön dang tenpar yiché tobpar shok
Gain firm conviction in the teacher and the teachings.

chin chi lok ma mutek lalo yi
May I obtain the power to refute mistaken or nonsensical notions
trulpé kyepé nam shyak jinyepa
From all the suppositions generated in delusion
dro la pendé gyu ru chi nam lé
By false dialecticians, heretics and barbarians,
dönmé dön lok shyompé tuden shok
Which do not bring benefit or happiness to beings.

künkhyen tenpa jisi né kyi bar
For as long as the teachings of the Omniscient One endure,
tsema rigpé shyuk ché nönpo yi
May I follow the science of valid cognition, and with a sharp tongue
chö dang chö min panglang rab jé ching
Perfectly distinguish Dharma and non-Dharma, right and wrong,
tawa ngenpé tsang tsing sekpar shok
Setting the undergrowth of inferior views ablaze.

kyewa küntu palden kuntuzang
In all my lives, may I take you, glorious Samantabhadra
chö kyi drakpa rik kyi dakpor tob
Dharmakīrti, as the lord of all my buddha families.
ka dang tenchö tsikdön namjé pé
And may I gain the supreme treasure of courageous eloquence
lodrö pobpé ter chok tobpar shok
And the intelligence that discerns words and meaning in the Word and treatises.

lamé né sum yikdru sum nam lé
From the three syllables at the guru's three centres,
kar mar ngowé özer rimgyi jung
Rays of white, red and blue light shine out in turn.
rang gi go sum la tim tuk ü né
They dissolve into my own three doors of body, speech and mind,
raldri sabön dangché nyipa ché
And then the sword and seed-syllables pass from his heart centre
rang gi nying nang shyuk shing özer gyi
To enter my own heart, whereupon rays of light
nying gi münsel tsa gojepar mö
Dispel my heart's darkness and unlock my channels.
om ara patsa na dhih
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
Recite the mantra many times, followed by the vowels and consonants and the mantra of dependent
origination.
palden lama ö shyu rang tim dang
The glorious guru melts into light and dissolves into me,
riktong kuntuzangpö ngang la shyak
And I rest in an experience of Samantabhadra: ever-perfect awareness and emptiness.

At the end of the session dedicate the virtue and recite prayers of aspiration and so on.

Chökyi Lodrö wrote this for his own practice. Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu jaya.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "dpal chos kyi grags pa'i bla sgrub/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 4:
19–21
↑ Throughout the text Jamyang Khyentse refers to Samantabhadra Dharmakīrti or creatively incorporates
the name Samantabhadra or Kunzang (meaning All Good). This seems to be in reference
to his teacher Khenpo Kunzang Palden Chökyi Drakpa, alias Khenpo Kunpal (c.1862–1943),
whose name translates into Sanskrit as Samantabhadra Dharmakīrti — and who even signed some
of his writings this way.