Guru Sādhana of the Omniscient Dolpopa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Here, I shall reveal a profound yogaFor the buddha Omniscient DolpopaWho was a nirmāṇakāya emanationOf
the victorious Great Sage and Padmasambhava.For this you should remain in an isolated
place,Seat yourself comfortably,And generate authentic renunciation and bodhicitta.
a, khordé chö nam ying su dü
Ah. All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are absorbed into absolute space.
mi yo sumden samten dang
Out of meditative concentration with its three immovable factors
rangrig machö nyukma lé
And my own pure awareness, genuine and unaltered,
rik sum chik dü trulpé ku
Arises the nirmāṇakāya form embodying the three families
soktsol dangmé gongbur shar
As a sphere of subtle essence and controlled vital force.
trodü chotrul chenpo yi
In absorption’s creative play, I recollect
jesu drenpé tingdzin tsal
The great miracle of emanating and reabsorbing.
pema dawé den tengdu
Upon seats of lotus and moon disc
künkhyen pradznya dhadza ni
Is the omniscient Prajñādhvaja,1
kar mar dangden ku sha gyé
White with a tinge of red, glowing and corpulent,
chögö nam sum dzepar lub
Beautifully attired in the three dharma robes,
u la pen shya dur kha sol
And, on his head, the orange hat of a paṇḍita.
shyabzung chekyil rolpé shyuk
He seats in playful ease, his two feet loosely crossed.
chak nyi pü teng kabpa dang
His two hands rest upon his knees,
dorjé tatang ying la zik
And with vajra gaze he looks into space.
neshyir yigé shyi ö trö
From the four syllables at his four centres light radiates out
yeshe chendrang yermé tim
Invoking the jñānasattva, who dissolves into him.
rangrig tawé jal chaktsal
Encountering the view of my own intrinsic awareness, I prostrate.
chi nang sangwé chöpé chö
With outer, inner and secret gifts, I make offerings.
ku sung tuk yön trinlé tö
And for your body, speech, mind, qualities and activity, I offer praise.
tukkar jikten wangchuk ni
At his heart centre is Lokeśvara—Lord of the World,
karsal chak yé chok jin dang
Brilliant white with his right hand in the gesture of supreme giving
yönpa kyab jin pekar nam
And his left in the mudrā of granting refuge and holding a lotus.
sem kyil shyukpé tuk ü su
He stands in the bodhisattva posture and in the centre of his heart
jampal marser ral lek nam
Is Mañjuśrī, orange in colour and holding sword and book.
tuk ü sangdak shyi ma tro
In the centre of his heart is the Lord of Secrets, neither peaceful nor wrathful,
dordril nampé tuk tsitta
Holding vajra and bell and at his heart,
ö kyi gurkhang barwé long
A blazing pavilion of light,
hung gi khokpar hrih dhih sa tsen
In which there is a Hūṃ marked on its interior by Hrīḥ and Dhīḥ.
dé lé dorjé ngak kyi dra
From this emanates the sound of the vajra mantra,
tröpé dakshyen dön nyi jé
Whereby the benefit of self and other is accomplished.
nöchü gyalwé kyilkhor dzok
Environment and inhabitants are perfected as maṇḍala of victorious ones,
yermé nyampa chenpor shyak
And in great indivisible equality, I rest.
Recite the approach mantras of the Lords of Three Families,Especially the Arapatsa.By reciting
the innermost heart, the ten powerful aspects,The mantra of the four vajras,You will gain
the two kinds of attainment.Even without training, the dharma treasury will overflow.In
periods between sessions recite prayers many times.At the end of a session deity appearances
dissolve into clear light,The deities of the three families at the heart melt into a bindu.And
the three bindus of mental focus on emanation and absorptionCombine into one, of
uncertain size, whichThrough emanation and absorption of multi-coloured light purifies environment
and inhabitantsAnd collects the subtle essence of existence and quiescence,Which
matures as the essence of great pristine awareness.Settle in an experience of great emptiness,And,
when arising, dedicate the merit,And bring virtue and excellence through verses of
auspiciousness.

Thus, inspired by my stable and unshakeable faith in the Great Omniscient One, I, Pema Yeshe
Dorje, wrote this in the palace of the celestial ḍākinī, Sikkim, on the fifth day of the
twelfth month of the Fire Bird year.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source:  ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen dol bo'i bla sgrub/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 4: 327–328

Version: 1.2-20220208
↑ Sanskrit for Sherab Gyaltsen, Dolpopa’s name.