Guru Sādhana of Garab Dorje
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

a, döné nöchü namdak shying
Ah. The environment and inhabitants have always been entirely pure.
yé tong chenpö ngang nyi lé
Out of the state of great primordial emptiness,
rang lü chakdor shyiwar sal
My own body appears clearly as Vajrapāṇi in peaceful form.
dün khar ying nang ting ga cher
In the sky before me, in a vast and deep blue space,
lhündrub ö nang tsombur dal
The light of spontaneous presence shines in clusters.
dé ü tiklé ö ngé long
In their midst, in an expanse of five-coloured circles of light,
rinchen trikang pé nyidar
Upon a jewelled throne and seats of lotus, sun and moon,
tek chok tenpé shingta ché
Is that great pioneer of the teachings of the supreme vehicle:
garab dorjé longkü ché
Garab Dorje in saṃbhogakāya attire.
shyi dzum karsal tsenpé tré
He smiles serenely and is brilliant white, adorned with major and minor marks.
chak yé kyab jin tekar kyang
His right hand is in the gesture of granting refuge,
yönpé ta zur den la ten
And his left hand rests upon the seat near his hip.
dar sham rinchen gyenché dzé
He wears a silken lower garment and jewel ornaments.
shyab nyi sem kyil tabab tsul
His two feet are in the bodhisattva posture,
ku ni gying bak tsul du shyuk
And he is seated with majestic poise.
né sum dorjé sum gyi tsen
His three centres are marked with the three vajra syllables,
ö trö yeshepa chendrang
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom beings,
chu la chu shyak shyindu gyur
Who then dissolve into the visualization, like water merging with water.

ah, rangrig lamar tawé chak
Aḥ. I pay homage with the view of my own awareness as the guru.
nangsi yé dzok chöpar bul
I offer the primordial perfection of appearance and existence.
diktung kyemé long du shak
I confess all misdeeds and downfalls within the unborn expanse.
ma jé gé la jé yirang
I rejoice in the virtue that is unfabricated.
lhün gyi drubpé chökhor kor
I request you to turn the dharma wheel of spontaneous presence.
kyechi mepé ngang du shyuk
I pray that you may remain in the state beyond birth and death.
lhündrub shyönnu bumkur ngo
And I dedicate within the spontaneously present, youthful vase body.
ku sum chenpor changchub shok
May we awaken in the magnificent form of the three kāyas.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ

dorjé sempa garab pawo la
To the warrior-like Garab Dorje, Vajrasattva in person,
miché dungshuk drakpö solwa deb
I pray with unwavering and fervent devotion.
ösal gongpé tsal chen rabdzok né
Having perfected the great power of clear light realization,
po chen jalü dorjé ku tob shok
May I attain the indestructible rainbow body of great transference.
om ah guru tradza bhawa hé benza sarwa siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ guru prajñā bhava hevajra sarva siddhi hūṃ

lamé né sum dru sum lé
From the three seed-syllables at the guru's three centres,
ku dang ngak treng chaktsen dang
Flows a stream of nectar, with light-rays, the three syllables,
dru sum özer dütsi gyün
Forms of the guru, mantra garlands and hand implements.
rang gi né sum rim chikchar
It pours into my own three centres, one by one.
shyukpé wang tob drib shyi dak
And through this, I receive empowerment, purify the four obscurations,
lam shyi gom shying nangwa shyi
And the seed for practising the four paths
patar chinpé sabön shyak
And completing the four visions is implanted within me.

tar ni lama gyepa ché
At the end, the guru, in his great delight,
chiwo né jön nying ü shyuk
Passes through my crown and takes his seat at the centre of my heart.
tukkar ö ngé long kyil du
At his own heart centre, within an expanse of five-coloured light,
kunzang yabyum shyukpa yi
Sits Samantabhadra together with his consort,
tuk ü tiklé ngönpö teng
And in his heart-centre, upon a sphere of blue light,
a tar long druk yikdrü kor
Is a syllable A surrounded by the seed syllables of the sixfold expanse.1
rang gi namshé tsok tamché
All the collections of your own consciousness
dakpé long du timpa dang
Are absorbed into the expanse of purity.
In a state of aware yet empty luminosity,
Without wavering, perform the vajra recitation,
Vocal recitation and 'wind-recitation' as many times as possible.
At the end of the session, dedicate the virtue,
And practise the concluding stages, such as bringing onto the path, in the usual way.
This brief guru sādhana was inspired
By signs that occurred in a dream experience.
Through writing down whatever emerged in the face of awareness,
May we find freedom in the guru of our very own rigpa.

Thus, Kunzang Ösel Nyingpo wrote this on the fifteenth day of the tenth month of the Water Snake
year.2

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gdod nas snod bcud rnam dag ces pa'i dga' rab rdo rje'i
bla ma'i rnal 'byor/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir:
Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 4: 23–24
↑ i.e., 'a, a, ha, sha, sa, ma.
↑ This corresponds to 20 November 1953.