Sādhana of the Great Master Vairotsana
by Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa

emaho
Emaho!
khorwé jikpa kyobpé damchö dang
The Sacred Dharma, which protects us from the perils of saṃsāra,
rik drol pobpé jungné dzok sang gyé
Aware, liberated sources of courageous eloquence, and the perfect Buddha—
sumké daknyi tsawa sum gyi ngö
The personification of these Three Jewels and actual embodiment of the Three Roots
lamé ku sung tuk la kyab su chi
Is the guru, in whose body, speech and mind, I take refuge!
Three times.
semchen kham ni namkhé ta shyin té
Sentient beings extend unto the very limits of space,
gang chir mikpa mepé changchub sem
And bodhicitta is therefore without reference point—
mönjuk döndam sem la rab jar né
Thus with bodhicitta of aspiration, action and the absolute,
tayé drowa drolwar damcha’o
I vow to liberate all living beings, who are without limit!
Three [times].
ah sherab rangjung drönmé deshyin nyi
Āḥ. As-it-isness corresponds to the naturally arisen lamp of wisdom,
kün nang gyang shyak drönmé dakchen ying
Universal manifestation, the great pure space of the far-reaching lamp;
dral tob mepé tiklé tong drön long
And the expanse of the lamp of empty spheres is beyond gain and loss.
chönyi ngönsum namnang gangchen tso
The direct realization of dharmatā is Vairocana of the Vast Glacial Ocean,
nyam nang gongpel bai rotsa né shyal
The increase of experience is Vairotsana’s face.
rigpa tsepeb künkhyen yeshe lü
Awareness reaching full measure is the body of omniscient wisdom.
chö zé lodé nyam shyak chenpor shyuk
The exhaustion of phenomena beyond the mind is remaining in great equipoise.
dorjé kyiltrung döné dzoksang gyé
His vajra posture signifies primordial, perfect wakening.
tekpa yongdzok chögö nam sum dang
His three dharma robes signify all vehicles in their entirety,
neluk dzogpachenpö pen shyu dzé
And the elegant paṇḍita’s hat represents the natural state of Great Perfection.
yé yön ma ben rinchen nyak lo chok
To his right and left are the sublime pair, Maben Rinchen and Nyak Lotsāwa,
chö rab jepé namchö zé mi shé
With inexhaustible intelligence that precisely discerns phenomena.
tsokhor sum gyi chi drin nyingkha ru
At the crown, throat and heart centres of the main figure and his attendants,
deshek kün gyi tuk sung kü köpa
Are located the enlightened mind, speech and body of all the sugatas,
yigé sum gyi daknyi chenpö tsen
In the form of the three syllables that mark these great masters.
den sum yongdzok ku lé ö tröpé
Light radiates out from the complete maṇḍala of the three seats
rangshyin chöying dewa chenpo né
And invokes the assembly of wisdom deities
yeshe lhatsok benza sa ma dza
From the great bliss of the dharmadhātu nature: vajra-samājaḥ!

hung namnang gang chen tso yi tukka né
Hūṃ. From the heart of the Vast Glacial Ocean Vairocana,
dra gyur bai rotsa na shek su sol
Come now, Lotsawa Vairotsana, we pray!
changlo chen gyi né chok dampa né
From the sublime and sacred land of Aṭakāvatī,
ma ben rinchen ö chok shek su sol
Come now, Maben Rinchen Öchok, we pray!
khyen rab raldri nönpö zurpü né
From the locks of the wielder of wisdom’s sharp sword,
nyak chen yeshe shyönnu shek su sol
Come now, Nyak Yeshe Zhönnu, we pray!
nam sum tuk dang dak yi madrepar
Until your wisdom merges inseparably with my mind,
tenpar shyuk la chötrin gyatsö chö
Remain here as I present to you vast, cloud-like offerings,
lü dang longchö töpa mepar bul
And offer up my own body and possessions without hesitation.
sangwa sum gyi yönten drenpé tö
Bringing to mind the qualities of your three secrets, I offer praise!
khyé shé depé nying né solwa deb
And with total confidence, I pray to you from the depths of my heart!
tuk yi chik tu drepé ngödrub tsol
Grant me the siddhi of blending my mind and your wisdom as one!
om ah guru bairo tsana ratna jnana hung soha
Oṃ āh guru vairocana ratna jñāna hūṃ svāhā
Recite the mantra in a continuous, river-like flow. Then dissolve the visualization at the end
of the session in the general way and dedicate the merit towards perfect awakening.

Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa wrote this in response to a request from Gyarong Kuchung. May virtue abound!

| Translated (provisionally) by Adam Pearcey, 2019.